At the very beginning, I showed you the
last slide, I'm showing it to you again.
This is, I think, the heuristic
that makes a ton of sense, right?
If you can solve the problem
with the state, as we saw,
those posts in the app were slow because
they were nested data structures.
They were causing re-renders, right,
just simply cuz of the way
the data was structured.
The fact that you would have to bust out
of all memoization just to update the UI,
means that it's probably worth having
a function on the ingest of that data.
To reorganize it in a way that
you can minimize changing and
replacing as many objects as
possible when using immutable data.
No library like Immer or
whatever is gonna solve it for
you if you have these deeply
nested data structures.
Cuz that's the way that
immutability works in JavaScript,
is you gotta change it all the way up.
So creating the flattest possible
data structure that you can will stop
rerenders when you use any of
the memoization out of the box, right?
Doing it otherwise just
doesn't make any sense.
Also React fundamentals in the way that
you shape your component hierarchy can
sometimes completely eliminate the need.
Sometimes we threw some React.memos
in there, and we're like, or
they use callbacks with
the passing dispatcher.
We can rip it out,
we still get all the benefits, right?
Sometimes using some of just
the React-like primitives out of the box
will do it for
you with no cost of checking two objects.
And yet, they should be very clear.
At a given, checking two objects
is probably not that expensive.
If it is your immediate go to,
it can pile up on you.
I have been bitten by it before
personally, if you never get bitten,
awesome, right?
But you will not ever get bitten by
just following the React way, right?
And so that should a lot of times
be at least the first inclination.
And I think we saw it before, it's like,
sometimes you will get surprised by what
doesn't just not trigger a re-render.
That said, if it's triggered
a bunch of re-renders, and
they're like, nothing, I don't know
if it's always the best, right?
And so developing that sense of
looking at it and being realistic.
But also, some of those things do
help you maybe suss out other bugs.
Like, this thing that I didn't
expect to even re-render at all,
just normally, was doing it cuz
the children were replaced?
That seems like if I was in no
way expecting that to happen and
it happened, what else could
be going wrong here, right?
And so some of that stuff
it's super useful, right?
And also a lot of times there are bugs,
yeah because there's suddenly other thing,
cool, cool, cool,
I think makes a ton of sense.
That said, memoization,
React.memo, useMemo,
I use them all the time,
all the time, right?
They're not to say you shouldn't use them,
use them.
But also, yeah, think about the first
one first, but they are there for you,
they exist for a reason.
It's not like people put them in like,
but never use that, don't be ridiculous.
I mean, there are certain
things you should never use.
But that's not one of them, right?
It's like, what does the with
keyword in JavaScript even do?
I still can't write a switch statement.
But, yeah, so memoization,
it's definitely there for you, right?
Using the Suspense API to progressively
load your application, kind of getting
stuff in the background ready to go and
not sending the entire bundle.
Yeah, and
there is more coming from that API.
This is just not totally ready,
it's like React server components
are not totally ready.
We'll come back and
talk about them when they are.
But at this moment some of those
things like useEffect came and
went in a few months.
So I am a little more reluctant to talk
about things that haven't shipped.
And then when you have things where, no,
this is computationally expensive and
it needs to happen, right?
I just need to then still figure
out ways to keep my UI performant.
You do have primitives in React before
you try to wire your own, right?
Before you're like,
I'm gonna do this set timeout thing, and
it's gonna kick off this web worker.
And then that's gonna send a broadcast
message to all the other tabs,
and then there is service worker,
whatever.
You're not the first person
to have this problem, right?
Look to kind of the core pieces first.
Yeah, questions, and
I'm gonna look at the chat too, but.
>> Suspense was with 18,
right, not before then?
I couldn't remember what it is.
>> I don't remember,
I think some parts of Suspense,
I can't remember if they were
unstable ones I could pull in.
And there was a library that
Jamie Kyle made, it would by just being
called lazy or something along
those lines, I can look at that.
>> That you mentioned.
>> There was a version of that
that was not in React core.
It was 2017, 2018 maybe, right?
So a version of that concept, right?
At that point you're playing a game
which does your Webpack's configuration.
But some version of that concept has
existed for four or five years.
Fully being in React, it was coming for
so long, I can't fully remember.
And React 18 came much
later than I expected.
Some things came,
the time-space continuum during COVID
[LAUGH] is a little flaky for me?
But yes, maybe 17, yeah?
Detransition stuff, I believe, is new,
all the concurrency pieces are new for
React 18, though.
>> Do you have any recommendations for
additional reading resources?
>> I will find it, but if you do React WG,
there is the working group for
the React team, where for a lot of these
things, all of the discussions and
updates about here's a new feature,
here's how it works.
And then also, hey, we're not doing
this thing now, and here's why.
So they might be like,
I heard this thing was coming,
a lot of times you can see
the rationale for why.
And for me learning about these things,
that was incredibly valued to see
the person who wrote the feature
kinda do the documentation on it.
Discuss some of the trade offs and
thoughts around it was
absolutely fascinating.
And there's a super how that at one point
there's some thread in there, which is
like, people put terms that confuse you,
and then somebody will try to explain it.
And everyone up was like,
draw a graph of how concurrency is kind
of like a game of telephone, right?
And some of just actually from the actual
core team itself in a public forum,
as they're discussing
the implementation details.
And the thought and
consideration that went into these,
is absolutely fascinating.
And so that would be the first and
most immediate thing.
I was like, you should just Google it,
as if I did not had a computer, hold on.
If only I could just type that instead of,
I'll drop it in the chat too.
Big fan of this, totally worth, there's,
yeah, the Discussion tab, right.
And then you go into Announcements, that's
the one I like, and Deep Dive is good too.
Yeah, some of them are a year or
so old, but still,
they explain, look, new in 18,
selective hydration,
there's useDeferredValue.
You can see explain it, and then also
check out the length of the comments
in the thread,
that's where the good stuff is.
The announcement, sure, sure,
sure, but the discussion and
the questions and
the answers explaining everything,
for me was incredible to get it
from the team that built it.
>> How long have they been doing this,
since the beginning of React?
>> I was only aware of it for React 18.
So I can't say that it wasn't happening
the whole time, but I've only been fully
aware of it for the kind of lead up over
the last year, or year and a half or so.
Thank you all so much.
>> [APPLAUSE]